SOCKET(3P)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SOCKET(3P)

PROLOG
     This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The
     Linux implementation of this interface may  differ  (consult  the
     corresponding  Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior),
     or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
     socket —— create an endpoint for communication

SYNOPSIS
     #include <sys/socket.h>

     int socket(int domain, int type, int protocol);

DESCRIPTION
     The socket() function shall create an unbound socket in a  commu‐
     nications  domain,  and return a file descriptor that can be used
     in later function calls that operate on  sockets.  The  file  de‐
     scriptor  shall  be  allocated as described in Section 2.14, File
     Descriptor Allocation.

     The socket() function takes the following arguments:

     domain      Specifies the communications domain in which a socket
                 is to be created.

     type        Specifies the type of socket to be created.

     protocol    Specifies a particular protocol to be used  with  the
                 socket. Specifying a protocol of 0 causes socket() to
                 use  an  unspecified default protocol appropriate for
                 the requested socket type.

     The domain argument specifies the address family used in the com‐
     munications domain. The address families supported by the  system
     are implementation-defined.

     Symbolic  constants  that can be used for the domain argument are
     defined in the <sys/socket.h> header.

     The type argument specifies the socket type, which determines the
     semantics of communication over the socket. The following  socket
     types  are defined; implementations may specify additional socket
     types:

     SOCK_STREAM Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional,  connec‐
                 tion-mode  byte  streams, and may provide a transmis‐
                 sion mechanism for out-of-band data.

     SOCK_DGRAM  Provides datagrams,  which  are  connectionless-mode,
                 unreliable messages of fixed maximum length.

     SOCK_SEQPACKET
                 Provides  sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connec‐
                 tion-mode transmission paths for  records.  A  record
                 can  be  sent using one or more output operations and
                 received using one or more input  operations,  but  a
                 single  operation  never  transfers part of more than
                 one record. Record boundaries are visible to the  re‐
                 ceiver via the MSG_EOR flag.

     If the protocol argument is non-zero, it shall specify a protocol
     that is supported by the address family. If the protocol argument
     is  zero,  the  default protocol for this address family and type
     shall be used. The protocols supported by the system  are  imple‐
     mentation-defined.

     The  process  may  need to have appropriate privileges to use the
     socket() function or to create some sockets.

RETURN VALUE
     Upon successful completion, socket() shall return a  non-negative
     integer,  the  socket  file descriptor.  Otherwise, a value of -1
     shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
     The socket() function shall fail if:

     EAFNOSUPPORT
            The implementation does not support the specified  address
            family.

     EMFILE
            All  file  descriptors  available  to the process are cur‐
            rently open.

     ENFILE
            No more file descriptors are available for the system.

     EPROTONOSUPPORT
            The protocol is not supported by the  address  family,  or
            the protocol is not supported by the implementation.

     EPROTOTYPE
            The socket type is not supported by the protocol.

     The socket() function may fail if:

     EACCES
            The process does not have appropriate privileges.

     ENOBUFS
            Insufficient  resources  were  available  in the system to
            perform the operation.

     ENOMEM
            Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

     The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
     None.

APPLICATION USAGE
     The documentation for specific address families  specifies  which
     protocols  each  address  family  supports. The documentation for
     specific protocols specifies which  socket  types  each  protocol
     supports.

     The  application  can determine whether an address family is sup‐
     ported by trying to create a socket with domain set to the proto‐
     col in question.

RATIONALE
     None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
     None.

SEE ALSO
     Section 2.14, File Descriptor Allocation, accept(), bind(),  con‐
     nect(),    getsockname(),    getsockopt(),    listen(),   recv(),
     recvfrom(), recvmsg(),  send(),  sendmsg(),  setsockopt(),  shut‐
     down(), socketpair()

     The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017, <netinet_in.h>,
     <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
     Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic
     form from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technol‐
     ogy  --  Portable  Operating  System  Interface (POSIX), The Open
     Group Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018  Edition,  Copyright  (C)
     2018  by  the  Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
     Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy  between
     this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard,
     the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee doc‐
     ument.  The  original  Standard  can  be   obtained   online   at
     http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

     Any  typographical  or formatting errors that appear in this page
     are most likely to have been introduced during the conversion  of
     the  source  files to man page format. To report such errors, see
     https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group              2017                       SOCKET(3P)
