TIME(3am)	    GNU Awk Extension Modules		TIME(3am)

NAME
     time - time functions for gawk

SYNOPSIS
     @load "time"

     time = gettimeofday()
     ret = sleep(amount)
     timeval = strptime(string, format)

DESCRIPTION
     The time extension adds three functions named gettimeofday()
     sleep(), and strptime(), as follows.

     gettimeofday()
	    This function returns the number of seconds since the
	    Epoch  as a floating-point value. It should have sub‐
	    second precision.  It returns -1 upon error and  sets
	    ERRNO to indicate the problem.

     sleep(seconds)
	    This  function attempts to sleep for the given amount
	    of seconds, which may include a  fractional	 portion.
	    If	seconds	 is  negative,	or  the	 attempt to sleep
	    fails, then it returns -1 and sets ERRNO.  Otherwise,
	    the function should return 0 after sleeping	 for  the
	    indicated amount of time.

     strptime()
	    This  function  takes  two arguments, a string repre‐
	    senting a date and time, and a format string describ‐
	    ing the data in the string. It calls  the  C  library
	    strptime(3)	 function  with the given values.  If the
	    parsing succeeds, the results are passed to the C li‐
	    brary mktime(3) function, and its result is returned,
	    expressing the time in seconds since the epoch in the
	    current local timezone, regardless	of  any	 timezone
	    specified in the string arguments.	(This is the same
	    as gawk's built-in systime() function.)  Otherwise it
	    returns  -1 upon error. In the latter case, ERRNO in‐
	    dicates the problem.

BUGS
     The underlying strptime(3) C library routine apparently  ig‐
     nores any time zone indication in the date string, producing
     values  relative to the current time zone.	 It might be bet‐
     ter to have this routine return a	string	similar	 to  what
     gawk's mktime() function expects, but we ran out of energy.

EXAMPLE
     @load "time"
     ...
     printf "It is now %g seconds since the Epoch\n", gettimeofday()
     ...
     printf "Pausing for a while... " ; sleep(2.5) ; print "done"
     ...
     format = "%b %d %H:%M:%S %Z %Y"
     now = systime()
     print now, "<" (result = strftime(format, now)) ">",
     then = strptime(result, format)
     print strftime(format, then)

SEE ALSO
     GAWK:   Effective	 AWK   Programming,  filefuncs(3am),  fn‐
     match(3am),  fork(3am),  inplace(3am),  ordchr(3am),   read‐
     dir(3am), readfile(3am), revoutput(3am), rwarray(3am).

     gettimeofday(2), nanosleep(2), select(2), and strptime(3).

AUTHOR
     Arnold Robbins, arnold@skeeve.com.

COPYING PERMISSIONS
     Copyright	©  2012, 2013, 2018, 2022, 2023, 2024, Free Soft‐
     ware Foundation, Inc.
     Copyright © 2019, Arnold David Robbins.

     Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies
     of this manual page provided the copyright notice	and  this
     permission notice are preserved on all copies.

     Permission	 is  granted to copy and distribute modified ver‐
     sions of this manual page under the conditions for	 verbatim
     copying,  provided that the entire resulting derived work is
     distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
     to this one.

     Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of
     this manual page into another language, under the above con‐
     ditions for modified versions, except that	 this  permission
     notice  may be stated in a translation approved by the Foun‐
     dation.

Free Software Foundation   Nov 13 2024			TIME(3am)
